All right here we go let's define the last important elements.
But for our specific case that either is minimizing the energy consumption inside our server and so
next variables we have to introduce here which are still some environment object variables are the ones
related to the temperature and the ones related to the energy.
So let's start with the ones related to the temperature.
So remember in our specific case study there is an important thing to understand is that in order to
compare the performance of our AI we have to compare it's energy spent with the energy that would be
spent in the alternative situation where we have no AI and therefore to do that we have to make these
two separate simulations one where we'll follow the evolution of the temperature when we have the AI.
And then separately another simulation will follow the evolution of the temperature of the server.
When we have no AI and that's why we have to make two separate variables here.
One for the temperature of the serai when we have the AI and another one for the temperature of the
zone we have no AI.
However in order to make these two simulations have total sense well these two temperatures of the silver
when we have the IA and when we have no AI I have to follow the same evolution of the intrinsic temperature
of the server.
That is the same evolution of the temperature of the server based on the fluctuations of the number
of users and the rate of data transmission and that intrinsic temperature of the server which is the
common base of these two separate simulations is exactly given by this formula which is the formula
of Assumption 1 saying that the intrinsic temperature of the search that is the surface temperature
that is independent of the actions of any system.
Either the AI or the alternative system is approximately equal to the atmospheric temperature plus one
point twenty five times the number of users in the solar plus one point twenty five times the rate of
data transmission server.
And that's this intrinsic temperature which will follow the same evolution for these two separate simulations
that we're going to run separately to compare the performance of our AI with respect to the performance
of the alternative system.
That is when we have no AI.
And therefore that's why right now we have to make three separate variables for some temperatures.
The first one is going to be that intrinsic temperature which will be the common temperature evolving
into two separate simulations then another variable for the temperature of the first simulation that
is when we have the AI and then a third variable for the temperature of the second simulation when we
have no AI and then we'll follow the evolution of these three separate temperatures and we'll be able
to compare the energy spent for two separate simulations.
All right let's do this and let's start with the intrinsic temperature of the server which is exactly
given by this formula.
All right.
And therefore that is.
Well let's get our variables here of the object self atmospheric temperature then plus one point twenty
five times self that current number of users that is the number of users in the server at a specific
time.
Here we go.
And then plus one point twenty five times.
This time the current rate of data transmission that is self that current rate data are right one point
twenty five times the current rate of data.
And with that we get that intrinsic temperature of the server which will be the common base that is
the common temperature evolution for our two simulations.
One with the AI and one with no AI.
And speaking of the temperature with the well that's going to be our next variable here self that temperature.
That is the temperature of the server when there isn't the eye.
And how are we going to initialize this well simply as the intrinsic temperature right at the beginning.
This is exactly what is going to be the temperature of this or when we have the eye at the beginning
because I will not have played any actions yet.
All right.
Great.
Now the other temperature for the other separate simulation which we're going to call this time temperature
no AI and well again for this one it would make sense to initialize it as the intrinsic temperature.
But since this is the temperature of the Suroor when we have no AI that is when the server is regulated
by this alternative service integrated cooling system that will automatically bring the temperature
back into the optimal range of temperature.
Well there is even a better way to initialize this temperature.
No AI it is by sending it equal to the middle of the optimal temperature range indeed.
Imagine the intrinsic temperature at the very beginning is outside the optimal temperature range where
the server is integrated cooling system will automatically put it back into the optimal range of temperature
so we will rather initialize it this way.
And therefore I'm going to take my optimal range of temperature which is given in this variable and
I'm going to get the middle of it I can either get the closest bound or the middle of it.
But at this point it's more simple to get the middle of it and to get the middle of it.
I'm going to get first the lower bound which has index 0 then plus the upper bound which has index 1
and then we divide that by 2.0 2.0 because it's a photo operation and that will give us the temperature
of the optimal range that is 21.
Because the middle of 18 and 24 is 21.
All right so perfect.
That's it for the temperature.
Good.
And now that we initialize the temperatures well we can initialize the variables related to the energy
and very simply there are going to be the variables that will contain the values of the total energy
spent by each of these two systems.
So we're going to have one variable called Total Energy AI which will be the total energy spent by the
AI over the iterations either doing hold the training which will be some five month period or the whole
simulation which will be a one full year and this will be the sum of the energy spent at each iteration
and the same will have this other horrible total energy no AI which will be the energy spent in the
other simulation.
That is the simulation of the server being regulated by this alternative service integrated cooling
system that is applied only when we have no AI.
All right so let's introduce these two variables.
First one is the total energy spent by the AI when we have the AI and will initialize that to zero point
zero and then same self that total energy.
No AI that is stored energy spent by this alternative service integrated cooling system when we have
no AI and same will initialize this to zero point zero.
And then finally here we are back into the general AI framework that we are building so that you can
take a step back and adapt it to your own environments which are the reward the variable seeing whether
the game is over and the moat which will say if we are in training mode that is training our AI or inference
mode that is simulating the actions of our AI over a certain period of simulation.
All right.
So you always have to introduce and initialize these variables when doing deep reinforcement learning.
And therefore Here we go with the reward first.
That's going to be the reward received at each iteration.
That is right after the AI plays in action and we are going to initialize this to 0.0.
Then we have what we're going to call the game over.
Var well which will be like a Boullion saying if the game is over and it will be cool to one if the
game is over and 0 if the game is not over.
And of course we have to initialize this to zero because at the beginning the game is obviously not
over since it is starting.
All right.
And then finally the last variable which we're going to call train and which will be the mode in which
will have the value one if we are in training mode and 0 if we are in inference mode that is if we're
doing the simulation.
And of course at the beginning well before we run any simulation we'll have to train first our AI and
therefore will initialized this to 1.
We have to start in the training mode.
All right and that's it.
That's all the variables and parameters we have to introduce and initialize for our specific case.
But remember that what we just said here that is this first step introducing and initializing all the
parameters and variables of the environment is the first step of this first part.
Building the environment inside this whole AI framework.
So remember this any time you will need to switch from this implementation that we're doing together
to your implementation to solve your business problem.
All right.
Perfect.
And now we're going to move on to the next step which will be to make a method that will update the
environment right after the place in action.
And again this is the next step in the general framework.
So let's do that in the next Tauriel.
And until then enjoy AI.